# IT38-Enterprise-System
Comparative Analysis of Successful and Failed Enterprise System Implementations
Case Study 1: Successful Enterprise System Implementation

b.1. company overview (Why the enterprise system was implemented)
As it grew, Walmart, one of the biggest and most prosperous retail chains in the world, required an ERP system to improve its operating processes. Walmart set up its first store in 1962 and today, it runs more than 10 thousand shops around the world, selling a diverse range of products. In order to pursue its cost leadership strategy, especially through its huge supply chain, Walmart needed to integrate systems for inventory control, order processing, and logistics optimization. Thus, the company implemented SAP ERP to improve supply chain functions like better demand forecast accuracy, effective replenishment and access to information anytime, anywhere within the company. The integration of these systems enabled Walmart to achieve improved operational and decision-making efficiency, task automation, reduced personnel inaccuracies, and optimized inventory management all of which led to significant savings and increased customer satisfaction. Furthermore, the scaling capabilities of the ERP system helped Walmart manage a vast network of stores and distribution centers that supported global expansion.

b.2. implementation process
Walmart’s goal was to increase operational productivity and smoothen its global supply chain, which is why it took a strategic steps for the implementation of its ERP SAP. The process commenced with a comprehensive evaluation and planning stage during which Walmart aimed to improve business needs such as inventory management, supply chain optimization and real time access to business information throughout the stores and distribution centers. As a result of such specifying objectives which were meant to improve the company’s inventory accuracy along with decision making, Walmart was able to select SAP as its ERP solution due to its scalability. The selection of SAP marked the start of a complicated, multi phased implementation system that was meant to unify the different business activities within the operations of the organization.

b.3. Key success factors
Several factors explain why Walmart ranks among the world’s most profitable retailers. Like most companies, Walmart employs a cost leadership strategy at the core of its operation, which enables it to offer a wide range of products at the lowest prices due to economies of scale, efficient supply chain structures, and cost-cutting measures. Another important aspect is Walmart’s supply chain and logistics efficiency, which is regarded as one of the most complex logistical systems in the world. With the help of technology and real-time data, and leveraging key relationships with suppliers, Walmart can keep products in stock without needing to overproduce and minimizing costs. These efforts make logistics more effective and affordable. In addition, Walmart’s adoption of technology and data analytics, as well as their ERP systems, facilitates the optimization of inventory control, demand forecasting, and operational decision making, which helps explain their market power.

b.4. outcomes & impact
Both the retail industry and Walmart have been impacted greatly by their strategies and innovations. Walmart maintained this position as the world’s number one retailer by prioritizing cost leadership. This has led to revenue and profitability growth. The company’s supply chains, as well as inventory management and customer satisfaction, have all improved due to the implementation of new technologies which cuts operational costs. Walmart’s efficiency is evident in its data and ERP system algorithms that increase the accuracy of demand forecasts. This allows the company to address consumer issues while eliminating unnecessary expenditure. The retail sector has also been impacted globally as other companies are forced to implement technological advancements and low cost strategies due to Walmart’s dominance. Walmart has also transformed global supply chain strategies and set new standards for integration and efficiency with operational excellence. But, its success has brought up issues about environmental sustainability, local businesses, and labor practices illustrating the company’s shortcomings in social corporate responsibility within the current retail context.

Case Study 2: Failed Enterprise System Implementation
c.1. company overview (Reason for implementing the enterprise system)
A clear failure of an enterprise system implementation is Hershey’s in 1999. The company focused on a new Enterprise Resource Planning system to improve its operations and supply chain management. However, the deployment of the SAP system in combination with overhaul of the distribution system posed major challenges with order fulfillment. Problems like inventory voids resulted in high levels of disruption. Hershey’s system was turned on around October of the year, during their most hectic season, and as a result the order fulfillment, inventory management, and distribution systems came to a standstill. The reasons given were clearly lacking, with an emphasis on no testing, inadequate training, and poor integration planning. Nowas a byproduct the company has lost the ability to sell its products to the general market. In effect, the company has lost millions of dollars and the trust of many clients. This instance poses the need of strategic planning and testing in regards to the timing of the deployment of an ERP system.

c.2. implementation process & challenges
In 1999, Hershey’s attempted to implement an ERP system, specifically SAP, in order to broaden their supply chain as well as their inventory management processes. The main reason Hershey’s sought out this technological deployment was to improve their business processes as they stepped into the global market. The company aimed to achieve effortless business management, increased productivity, and optimized order processing with the new ERP system. But these goals remain unfulfilled till today. The implementation process of the ERP system proved to be a challenge for Hershey’s at multiple levels. There were problems due to Hershey’s negligence of the ideal business processing planning — they instituted the system right before the Halloween season, a peak sales period for the company. This timing was problematic as it did not allow for enough testing or training for employees. Furthermore, the company decided to install other systems such as warehouse and transportation systems, which only increased their troubles. Lastly, there were a multitude of issues that disrupted the business including data migration.
As a consequence, the delay in the delivery of the goods worsened along with the unmet expectations for product delivery, inaccurate inventory, and problems with scheduling the production. These operational issues were faced by Hershey’s right after the system went live.

c.4. outcomes & consequences
The company suffered severe consequences as a result of the disastrous implementation of ERP in Hershey’s which occurred in 1999. Having chosen to implement an SAP-based Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), the company sought to improve the management of its supply chain as well as its operations but unfortunately, the deployment of the system was poorly timed. The organization underwent several operational problems during this period which included but not limited to order fulfillment, inventory management, and production scheduling. Further compounding the problem was with Hershey Enterprise Resource Planning was launched around the peak season of Halloween, which coincidentally made the matter worse. The consequence of these actions is that Hershey was unable to cater to the needs of retailers and thus stores had empty shelves which led to stock shortages. Moreover, there was a negative impact of around $100 million because of delayed shipments, missed orders, and strained relationships with retailers.
These operations put a dent in the reputation of Hershey which led to loss of trust among his partners and strained relationships. Hershey’s credibility was badly affected along with people losing faith in how readily available the brand always claimed their products to be, rather infuriating the customers further. Missing on key sales during the major holiday season further deepened the operational losses for Hershey.  Thus, in the eyes of the business and technological community, the brand’s mishap claimed them to be incompetent and was a huge blow to theirs and so, unfortunately, the reputation of Hershey’s was tarnished.


https://www.walmart.com/
https://www.thehersheycompany.com/




